University of Wisconsin-Madison Thesis LaTeX Class

by Eric Benedict, 2000, 2002

This provides a class file which produces thesis, prelims,
dissertations and project reports which should meet the
requirements of the graduate school at UW-Madison.  In addition
to the class file, an example thesis is included which provides
a brief introduction to LaTeX and the usage of the style class
in particular.  The usage is explained both by example through
the source of the example thesis as well as in the typeset result
of the example thesis.

If you are new to LaTeX, I suggest making two copies of the example
files.  Leave one as a reference and edit the other by removing the
example text and replacing it with your own text.  This will make
learning LaTeX and producing your thesis occur relatively quickly
(at least it did for me.  I learned LaTeX and wrote my MS thesis
in a couple of weeks doing this way).

If you already know LaTeX, but want to learn more; this class file
is relatively heavily commented and could serve as a basis for learing
to write your own class files.

Instructions for using:
  1) Unpack the zip archive.  Done! (or you likely wouldn't be reading this!)
  2) run latex on main.tex
      UNIX/Linux: $ latex main <return>
      Windows: depends on set up.  Likely: load main.tex and click LaTeX button
                                   (assumes WinEdt/MikTex)
  3) run bibtex to generate bibliography info:
      UNIX/Linux: $ bibtex main <return>
      Windows: depends on set up.  Likely: click BibTeX button.
  4) run latex two more times (see above)
  5) view dvi output
      UNIX/Linux: $ xdvi main & (the '&' places the viewer in the background)
      Windows: depends on set up.  Likely: click the viewer button.
  6) printing
       UNIX/Linux: $ dvips main    (straight to printer)
                   $ dvips -o main.ps main (to file main.ps)
       Windows: depends on setup...


Good Luck!

Eric



File List:
Name			Description
withesis.cls		LaTeX2e thesis class file
withesis.sty		LaTeX2.09 thesis class file (for those who hate change)
				note: no longer maintained & not recommended!
withe10.sty		10pt spacing info file (needed for 10pt thesis)
withe12.sty		12pt spacing info file (needed for 12pt thesis)

main.tex  		Thesis root file (run LaTeX on this file)
prelude.tex		Thesis preliminary stuff (title page, TOC, etc)
abstract.tex    	Thesis abstract 
intro.tex        	A thesis chapter
acro.tex        	A thesis chapter
bibref.tex             	A thesis chapter
bibs.tex            	A thesis chapter   
code.tex       		A thesis chapter	
essentials.tex        	A thesis chapter 
figs.tex         	A thesis chapter
math.tex          	A thesis chapter
usage.tex          	A thesis chapter
refs.bib   		The BibTeX reference library
vwcontr.eps 		An encapsulated PostScript figure
fig2.tex         	A figure using TeX's picture drawing language
derivs.m  		A sample program listing

essential.tex         	The original form of essentials.tex by Jon 
                          Warbrick (c) 1989

README			This file

source.zip 		The zip archive you unpacked


Acknowledgements:
The {\tt withesis} style file is based on the Purdue thesis file
written by Dave Kraynie and edited by Darrell McCauley.   Additional
environments came from a thesis class file provided by the UW Math 
Department.

The idea and basis for the documenting example came from a similar
manual James Darrell McCauley and Scott Hucker in 1993 for the Purdue 
University thesis style file.

The chapter on LaTeX essentials is an edited version of a document by
Jon Warbrick.




License:

This class file is Licensed under the Perl Artistic License which is 
reproduced below:

Preamble

The intent of this document is to state the conditions under which a Package
may be copied, such that the Copyright Holder maintains some semblance of
artistic control over the development of the package, while giving the users
of the package the right to use and distribute the Package in a more-or-less
customary fashion, plus the right to make reasonable modifications. 

Definitions

       "Package" refers to the collection of files distributed by the
       Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection of files
       created through textual modification. 

       "Standard Version" refers to such a Package if it has not
       been modified, or has been modified in accordance with the
       wishes of the Copyright Holder as specified below. 

       "Copyright Holder" is whoever is named in the copyright or
       copyrights for the package. 

       "You" is you, if you're thinking about copying or distributing
       this Package. 

       "Reasonable copying fee" is whatever you can justify on the
       basis of media cost, duplication charges, time of people
       involved, and so on. (You will not be required to justify it to
       the Copyright Holder, but only to the computing community
       at large as a market that must bear the fee.) 

       "Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the item
       itself, though there may be fees involved in handling the
       item. It also means that recipients of the item may
       redistribute it under the same conditions they received it. 

    1.You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of
       the Standard Version of this Package without restriction, provided
       that you duplicate all of the original copyright notices and associated
       disclaimers. 

    2.You may apply bug fixes, portability fixes and other modifications
       derived from the Public Domain or from the Copyright Holder. A
       Package modified in such a way shall still be considered the
       Standard Version. 

    3.You may otherwise modify your copy of this Package in any way,
       provided that you insert a prominent notice in each changed file
       stating how and when you changed that file, and provided that you do
       at least ONE of the following: 

           a.place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise
              make them Freely Available, such as by posting said
              modifications to Usenet or an equivalent medium, or placing
              the modifications on a major archive site such as
              uunet.uu.net, or by allowing the Copyright Holder to include
              your modifications in the Standard Version of the Package. 
           b.use the modified Package only within your corporation or
              organization. 
           c.rename any non-standard executables so the names do not
              conflict with standard executables, which must also be
              provided, and provide a separate manual page for each
              non-standard executable that clearly documents how it
              differs from the Standard Version. 
           d.make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright
              Holder. 

    4.You may distribute the programs of this Package in object code or
       executable form, provided that you do at least ONE of the following: 

           a.distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library
              files, together with instructions (in the manual page or
              equivalent) on where to get the Standard Version. 
           b.accompany the distribution with the machine-readable
              source of the Package with your modifications. 
           c.give non-standard executables non-standard names, and
              clearly document the differences in manual pages (or
              equivalent), together with instructions on where to get the
              Standard Version. 
           d.make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright
              Holder. 

    5.You may charge a reasonable copying fee for any distribution of this
       Package. You may charge any fee you choose for support of this
       Package. You may not charge a fee for this Package itself. However,
       you may distribute this Package in aggregate with other (possibly
       commercial) programs as part of a larger (possibly commercial)
       software distribution provided that you do not advertise this Package
       as a product of your own. You may embed this Package's interpreter
       within an executable of yours (by linking); this shall be construed as
       a mere form of aggregation, provided that the complete Standard
       Version of the interpreter is so embedded. 

    6.The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as
       output from the programs of this Package do not automatically fall
       under the copyright of this Package, but belong to whomever
       generated them, and may be sold commercially, and may be
       aggregated with this Package. If such scripts or library files are
       aggregated with this Package via the so-called "undump" or
       "unexec" methods of producing a binary executable image, then
       distribution of such an image shall neither be construed as a
       distribution of this Package nor shall it fall under the restrictions of
       Paragraphs 3 and 4, provided that you do not represent such an
       executable image as a Standard Version of this Package. 

    7.C subroutines (or comparably compiled subroutines in other
       languages) supplied by you and linked into this Package in order to
       emulate subroutines and variables of the language defined by this
       Package shall not be considered part of this Package, but are the
       equivalent of input as in Paragraph 6, provided these subroutines do
       not change the language in any way that would cause it to fail the
       regression tests for the language. 

    8.Aggregation of this Package with a commercial distribution is
       always permitted provided that the use of this Package is embedded;
       that is, when no overt attempt is made to make this Package's
       interfaces visible to the end user of the commercial distribution.
       Such use shall not be construed as a distribution of this Package. 

    9.The name of the Copyright Holder may not be used to endorse or
       promote products derived from this software without specific prior
       written permission. 

   10.THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY
       EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,
       WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
       MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
       PURPOSE. 

                           The End
